---
comments: true
date: 2013-02-21 21:19:57+00:00
layout: post
permalink: yoga-stuff
title: Yoga Stuff
categories:
- yoga
---

![athleta-store](http://corinaoffthemat.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/athleta-store-300x199.jpeg) The other day I amused myself by walking into an Athleta store that recently opened up to see what the hype was all about, and somewhere between the crazy toe socks that keep you from sliding around on your mat and the overly complicated yoga bags that hold everything but the kitchen sink, I began to feel disoriented. Where did all of this "yoga stuff" come from and who really needs any of it to benefit from the practice of Asana?

The same exasperated feeling washes over me every time I see someone
in a yoga class going through the extraneous ritual of placing one of
those $65 skidless towels over their mat and squirting it down with a
water bottle in order to give themselves the "perfect" traction. It
just seems so overly-complicated and unnecessary. Or perhaps I am just
being a [Yoga Bitch](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0307717445/ref=a
s_li_tf_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0307717445&lin
kCode=as2&tag=fla002-20)?

>As Vazirani ruefully writes_, "The Americanization of yoga includes strain. A higher rate of injury than yoga practiced in Asian countries. Emphasis is on postures only. Competition. Merchandise: mats, pillows, eye bags, blankets, blocks, ropes, tanks, shorts, T-shirts. J. Crew yoga clothes . . . . Yoga becomes something we must own."_ ~ Reetika Vazirani, a poet and author of the forthcoming collection _World Hotel_ (Copper Canyon, 2002) [Source: [Yoga Journal](http://www.yogajournal.com/lifestyle/672) ]

Something we must own. Hmmm. 

Many people who practice Yoga are being taken advantage of as a
consumer demographic and sold things they don't really need, all in
the name of Yoga. Big athletic apparel companies see the Yoga
community in the form of dollar signs and stop at nothing to invent
all sorts of [unnecessary
products](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pQPzDcJ57GQ) they know they
can trick consumers into thinking they need.

Don't get me wrong. I'm guilty of owning a few big labels in my own workout stash (all bought on markdown, of course) and there is nothing wrong with purchasing a product that makes you feel good, or provides useful functionality for a chosen activity. Most high-tech workout apparel is made of advanced materials that can drastically improve your experience and performance when doing certain sports or activities. But this, of course, is a luxury afforded only to those who can shell out the dinero required to obtain such modern conveniences. Some of us aren't so privileged. And this is Yoga we're talking about here. Less is definitely more.

![lululemon-store](http://corinaoffthemat.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/lululemon-store-300x225.jpeg)Is the Yoga community getting to a point where we feel pressured to own that new pair of $80 Lululemon capris or that $150 yoga mat bag in order to _look_ like we do Yoga, when in actuality, doing Yoga has nothing to do with what we wear? Do we need to own products catered to Yoga in order to feel like we belong to a community, even though the practice itself brings people together? By letting large corporations shape how we practice Yoga, are we surrendering Yoga's original intention of developing a practice that suits our individual needs as practitioners, allowing us to better understand ourselves?

Philosophically, Yoga teaches us two core principles on which the
entire system of Yoga rests: _Abhyasa_ (practice) and _Vairagya_ (non-
attachment) _([The Yoga Sutras of Pantanjali](http://www.amazon.com/gp
/product/1938477073/ref=as_li_tf_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&cr
eativeASIN=1938477073&linkCode=as2&tag=fla002-20), 1.12-1.16)_. In
other words, "practice is to put forth a persistent effort without
attachment to the result".  When we own something, we feel attached to
it. We identify ourselves with what we own to the point that if we
lost it (result), we'll feel like we have lost a part of ourselves. If
we treat Yoga as something we own, we may become attached to it. We
will mistakingly identify with it, causing us to become more focused
on what we _expect_ Yoga to do for us (I must be able to do a
handstand in order to be happy), and less on letting Yoga do what it
does for us naturally when and where we need it most (practicing
quiets the chatter in mind allowing me to think with clarity about who
I am in this world and who I want to be).

![toe-sox](http://corinaoffthemat.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/toe-sox-286x300.jpeg)Many people would argue that the average person who practices yoga really doesn't care about how Yoga is benefitting them beyond just making them sweat their way to the perfect Yoga butt and they will buy whatever it takes to get them there. In the end, I would much rather have people on their mats regardless of _why_ because as long as they are practicing, they are benefiting from Yoga even if they don't realize it.

Consumer trends are cyclic in nature. In much of the same way we have seen large running apparel companies respond to a return to barefoot running by creating expensive, hi-tech minimalist running shoes, we are sure to see big yoga apparel companies respond to a return to simplicity on the mat by[ selling back to you the simplicity](http://shop.lululemon.com/products/clothes-accessories/women-yoga-mats-and-props/The-Un-Mat-390353?cc=10302&skuId=3482978&catId=women-yoga-mats-and-props) you should have opted for in the first place. Great, now we can own that too.
